Add Debezium 2.x docs (#1149)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/integrate/pages/legacy-cdc-connectors.adoc

= Legacy CDC Connector

> Change Data Capture (CDC) refers to the process of observing changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion

NOTE: This page refers to Hazelcast's {open-source-product-name} CDC connectors, also known as legacy CDC connectors. For more information on {enterprise-product-name} CDC connectors, see xref:integrate:cdc-connectors.adoc[].

Change Data Capture (CDC) refers to the process of observing changes
```

= Legacy CDC Connector

Change Data Capture (CDC) refers to the process of observing changes
made to a database and extracting them in a form usable by other
systems, for the purposes of replication, analysis and many more.

Change Data Capture is especially important to Hazelcast, because it allows
for the _streaming of changes from databases_, which can be efficiently
processed by the Jet engine.

Implementation of CDC in Hazelcast {open-source-product-name} is based on
link:https://debezium.io/[Debezium, window=_blank]. Hazelcast offers a generic Debezium source
which can handle CDC events from link:https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/index.html[any database supported by Debezium, window=_blank].
However, we're also striving to make CDC sources first class citizens in Hazelcast,

> as we have done already for MySQL and PostgreSQL already are.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as we have done already for MySQL and PostgreSQL.
```

== Installing the Connector

> This connector is included in the full distribution of Open Source Hazelcast.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This connector is included in the full distribution of Hazelcast {open-source-product-name}.
```

  specific, first class Jet CDC source for MySQL databases (also based
  on Debezium, but benefiting the full range of convenience Jet can
  additionally provide)
* link:https://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/{full-version}/javadoc/com/hazelcast/jet/cdc/postgres/PostgresCdcSources.html[PostgresCdcSources]:
  specific, first class CDC source for PostgreSQL databases (also based
  on Debezium, but benefiting the full range of convenience Hazelcast can
  additionally provide)

For the setting up a streaming source of CDC data is just the matter of pointing it at the right database via configuration:

```java
Pipeline pipeline = Pipeline.create();
pipeline.readFrom(
    MySqlCdcSources.mysql("customers")
            .setDatabaseAddress("127.0.0.1")
            .setDatabasePort(3306)
            .setDatabaseUser("debezium")
            .setDatabasePassword("dbz")
            .setClusterName("dbserver1")
            .setDatabaseWhitelist("inventory")
            .setTableWhitelist("inventory.customers")
            .build())
    .withNativeTimestamps(0)
    .writeTo(Sinks.logger());
```

> For an example of how to use CDC data see xref:pipelines:cdc.adoc[our tutorial].

Reviewer 2: Just a question; the same tutorial is referenced from both the Enterprise & legacy pages, in all likelihood it will be updated for the EE connector. 

I'd suggest that you consider whether to remove the link from this file or whether we also need to do something with the tutorial to provide one for each implementation.

Author: The API should be almost the same (this was one of main goals - old apps should work with very little to no changes), so maybe in parts where there are differences I will add tabs OS / EE?

Author: a25adae0ef13f4769a4ae54a5245bd9525997659

What do you think?

Reviewer 2: Perfect

=== Fault Tolerance

> CDC sources offer at least-once processing guarantees. The source
> periodically saves the database write ahead log offset for which it had
> dispatched events and in case of a failure/restart it will replay all
> events since the last successfully saved offset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CDC sources offer _at least once_ processing guarantees. The source
periodically saves the database write ahead log offset for which it has
dispatched events and in case of a failure/restart it will replay all
events since the last successfully saved offset.
```

> Unfortunately, however, there is no guarantee that the last saved offset
> is still in the database changelog. Such logs are always finite and
> depending on the DB configuration can be relatively short, so if the CDC
> source has to replay data for a long period of inactivity, then there
> can be a data loss. With careful management though we can say that
> at-least once guarantee can practically be provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, there is no guarantee that the last saved offset
is still in the database changelog. Such logs are always finite and,
depending on the DB configuration, can be relatively short, so if the CDC
source has to replay data for a long period of inactivity, then there
can be data loss. With careful management, the _at least once_ guarantee can be practically implemented.
```

== CDC as a Sink

> Change data capture is a source-side functionality in Jet, but we also
> offer some specialized sinks that simplify applying CDC events to a map, which gives you the ability to reconstruct the contents of the
> original database table. The sinks expect to receive `ChangeRecord`
> objects and apply your custom functions to them that extract the key and
> the value that will be applied to the target map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change data capture is a source-side functionality in Jet, but Hazelcast also
offers specialized sinks that simplify applying CDC events to a map, which gives you the ability to reconstruct the contents of the original database table. The sinks expect to receive `ChangeRecord`
objects and apply your custom functions to them that extract the key and
the value that will be applied to the target map.
```
